It this video will take an in-depth look at Cross center NSX architecture will cover the following topics.
We'll look at how universal objects can be used in cross recentre NSX deployments.
We'll look at how the NSX manager and NSX controller clusters are affected when we set up Cross center
NSX and we'll also talk about how egressed traffic reaches external networks Solan cross the center
NSX deployments.
They're still going to be one NSX manager hervé center Scherrer and each NSX manager will have a role
assigned one NSX manager will be designated as the primary NSX manager.
This is the only instance that actually has NSX controllers deployed and all of our universal objects
are going to be managed by that primary and Hasek's manager.
We can also have a secondary NSX manager.
These are any NSX manager instances that are added after the primary has been established.
The secondary NSX manager instances can not modify global objects they'll have read only access to global
objects a transit NSX manager instances one you won't see a whole lot of but assume you have a primary
NSX manager that you want to change to a standalone.
During that process it's going to be designated as a transit and X manager and then finally we have
a stand alone and unsexed manager.
This is simply any NSX manager or instance that's not part of a cross V center and ASX deployment.
All right so let's take a look at multiple active production center servers with cross vse and her NSX.
So on the left hand side we see one V Center instance with our primary NSX manager and on the right
hand side we see another V center server with our secondary NSX manager.
And we see a universal controller cluster that is deployed with the primary and insect's manager.
The secondary NSX manager does not have a controller kuasa and there's a synchronization service that
runs between the NSX manager instances.
So all management of universal objects like my universal logical switch or my universal distributed
logical router all of the management of those universal objects is done.
The primary NSX manager and the changes that are made there are synchronized to all of the secondary
instances.
So let's take a closer look at the primary NSX manager and how synchronizes with the secondary instances
while the primary NSX manager is going to have what we call the universal controller cluster.
So one of the key aspects of the NSX manager configuration in this environment is there is this synchronization
service that runs between the primary NSX manager and the secondary NSX manager.
In all of our configuration changes are going to be applied in this primary NSX manager but we have
to think about the possibility that that primary site could fail so the secondary NSX manager needs
to be kept up to date so the secondary NSX manager will have read only access to all of these universal
objects and it will be synchronized with the primary and ex-manager but the primary is where those changes
are actually made.
The primary NSX manager is also the only NSX manager that has a universal controller cluster and the
universal controller cluster is pretty similar to what we've seen with the controller cluster so far
there are still three NSX control and Oulds per quarter.
But it only exists with the primary NSX manager and since so if you're registering an existing NSX manager
as a secondary You need to be sure to remove the NSX controllers from the secondary first.
The logical switches that we create can be either local or universal.
The Pentagon the transport zone that they're assigned to and this applies to logical switches and DLR
is created at the secondary NSX sites as well.
How about the distributed firewall.
So the primary NSX manager is where all of our universal firewall rules are created and managed.
And these rules are synchronized across all of the NSX manager instances using the synchronization service
these universal firewall rules are fairly limited.
Primarily you're going to manage firewall rules using IP sets.
You can also create rules based on Max sets or universal firewall security groups the universal firewall
rules ensure that as virtual machines move from one v center to another that their security posture
is still enforced.
So we can Wii motion a VM from the site on the left to the side on the right and the firewall rules
come right along with it.
As long as they are universal firewall rules and you'll see those universal rules are displayed in their
own section of the firewall management interface for at Sachs.
Now one of the features of the universal logical router is this feature called local egress and this
is used to ensure that traffic bound for an external network uses the best possible route.
So in the scenario we see here we have two v centers servers in the same physical location and we have
an NSX sedge that's running on the Quester the left.
This is the only egress point and this is a fairly simple scenario because we don't need seperate routes
for each V Center instance.
So in this case the local egress feature should be left disabled and will have a universal logical routing
control VM that will be used to exchange dynamic routing updates between the distributed logical router
and the NSX.
And any routes that are learned are pushed to the kernel modules on the hosts by the universal controller
cluster.
So the distributed logical router works pretty much exactly the same as we've always seen in a cross
V Center and OS X deployment where we have local egressed disabled and in the universal control VM establishes
those routing adjacencies and it pushes all of the routing table updates to the hosts through the universal
controller cluster.
And because we only have one egress point all of these hosts are going to match up they're all going
to have the same routing table
now what if we have equal cost multipath enabled.
And I have an NSX edge deployed on two different hosts.
So in this diagram we have two physical routers that we want to use for egress.
The two blue circles represent different physical routers.
They're both the same site so there's still no need to configure local egress right edge one is managed
by the primary NSX manager edge two is managed by the secondary but there's still only a single universal
control VM and it establishes adjacencies with both of these NSX.
And we can then use equal cost multipath thing to evenly distribute traffic for all virtual machines
across both of the edge gateways.
Now one of those educate ways fails or one of the physical routers fails for example the routing protocol
will be used to ensure that that traffic gets redirected over the surviving path.
So with a single site configuration things really don't change a lot.
Right Things are pretty similar to the way that they were without cross V Center Allisons.
So how do we deploy crossfeed center and sect's in a single location.
Well first off we would create a universal transport zone a universal transport zone that spans all
of my coster's and we could then create our universal logical switches.
And so once we have our universal transport zone defined we can create a logical switch we can associate
it with that universal transport zone.
And one of our universal logical switches will be a transit switch that is used to connect to the distributed
logical router to the NSX etch.
So next comes the universal distributed logical router along with the universal control via.
There is no need to configure local ers in this case because we're still at a single location.
The next step would be to configure the universal logical router to connect to the transit network and
we also want it to connect to our logical switches that our VM connect to as well.
And then finally we'll deploy the added services Gateway will connect that to the transit logical switches.
Well and also to the external network.
So now if our VM are connecting to the universal logical switch they have access to their default gateway
which is the universal distributor logical router and the universal distributor logical router is connected
to the transit switch which gives it access to the NSX edge and through the NSX had access to the Internet.
Now things get a little bit more complicated.
If we want to deploy cross V center NSX in separate physical locations.
So in this case we're going to use a feature called local ers.
This is a feature of the universal distributed logical router and this feature is used to ensure that
any traffic bound for an external network takes the best possible route.
So in this scenario we have two different v center servers in two different physical locations and at
each site we have an NSX edge deployed and for each site that NSX is the optimal egress point for our
traffic for that location.
So in this case we need to enable the local egress feature on the universal logical router.
And we'll have control via SMS in both locations.
Each site will have a locale ID assigned to it so that site specific routing tables can be used so this
means that each of our locations is going to have a unique routing table with the best possible routes
for that particular location.
And each site also has its own Transat logical switches with uplinks that connect to the NSX sketch.
So now my universal distributed logical router has two different sets of uplinks one set of uplinks
for each location and any routes learned involving the NSX agit site.
Those routes are kept local desiré and the routes learn for site B are kept local to site B each site
has its own control VM that's in charge of building the dynamic routing table.
So my secondary control VM will establish an adjacency with edge to my primary logical routing control
via well-established and adjacency with Edgemont.
Let's talk our way through upgrading an existing deployment to cross V Center and ASX.
The number one step is to ensure that your NSX manager instances are both on Version 6 not to notice
at the bottom here.
We have overlapping VNA eyes Vionnet five thousand one is deployed.
Both of these locations.
So we need to make sure that we migrate those two different V.N. eyes so that we don't have conflicts
between the two sites.
When we Nabl cross V Center and that's we can then promote one of our NSX manager instances to the primary
NSX manager and the controller cluster associated with that primary NSX manager instance will become
the universal controller cluster the NSX controller cluster that's associated with the secondary NSX
manager should be deleted and the NSX manager site B must be registered to the primary NSX manager.
At which point it becomes a secondary NSX manager instance and now all of the logical switches and the
DL RS must be associated with the universal controller.
At this point we can start to create these universal objects like universal distributed logical routers
and universal logical switches.
Now a few key considerations that we want to talk about prior to actually doing this.
It's only supported on VSE fair six or later any service composer generated firewall rules are not supported
on universal objects.
Our local firewall rules do not come with virtual machines that are moved between the center instances
and our universe alogical switches do not support Lehre to bridging our local logical switches can only
be connected to a local distributed logical router and universal logical switches can only be connected
to a universal logical router.
So let's talk a little bit about what happens if a failure occurs.
What happens if my primary NSX manager instance fails or if the universal controller cluster or universal
control VM fail what we need to remember that these components are in the management plane and in the
control plane and a failure does not impact production traffic.
The recommended recovery process is to try to get this primary NSX manager instance back up and running.
But if that's not possible the secondary NSX manager instance can be promoted to a primary and a sex
manager.
And in that case we would also need to deploy a new universal controller cluster.
So ideally you'd want to recover the existing primary NSX manager.
But if you have a complete site loss or something like that you can promote the secondary NSX manager
and it will have the identical configuration because it's been synchronizing with the primary NSX manager
all along.
In review we can use Crosby center NSX to create universal objects like universal logical switches universal
firewall rules and universal distributed logical routers that span multiple V Center inventory's.
It allows the same Lehre to network to be present at different locations which can really help with
disaster recovery.